one of the more peculiar tidepools
surrounding the sinking ship of the
vegan movement in 2019 is the phenomenon
of fake ex vegans now whether or not
these people were fake vegans to begin
with I'm here describing people who are
coming out on YouTube and making videos
saying that they're quitting veganism
but then they clarify that they're
continuing to eat a vegan diet
they're either rejecting the concept of
veganism or in some even more phony way
just waving the flag of X veganism
apparently to get a larger number of
viewers the most dramatic an
attention-grabbing example of this
recently was John Venus John Venus who
made uh I don't know really
controversial video declaring his ex
veganism and then he ended up making
videos clarifying his position that he's
gonna continue to be something like 98
percent vegan while rejecting the word
and concept of philosophy of veganism it
was a it was a week Dinu mole to what
started off as a truly banal drama
well John Venus is a guy who can
consistently get more than 10,000
viewers on a video and let's just pause
to reflect on how many views that really
is a large part of my life I've been
surrounded by struggling academics
professors and people with PhDs who
could never give a lecture and expect
10,000 people to be interested who could
never publish a book and get 10,000 be
able to interested let me just say also
I used to work in nonfiction publishing
a lot of people published books and
never make 5 cents out of it they
publish a book with a print run of 500
copies and maybe the maybe 200 copies
sell but they sell over a period of 10
years so I can the first year the book
is published like not even a hundred
copies get sold and people work their
whole lives to write those books and a
lot of people work their whole lives to
get on stage and give that lecture and
they care about this stuff pass
and they can never reach an audience of
10,000 people so there's a sense in
which you could say well gee John Venus
should be happy with his audience of
10,000 people but there's a sense in
which he obviously isn't his whole life
has been devoted to developing his
physique lifting weights and giving
other people advice on lifting weights
and that gets repetitious quick he's
looking around he's got a wife and kid
and he's saying to himself other people
are famous and making a lot more money
flexing their biceps why not me
well on a whole other level a guy you
may remember from about three years ago
maybe five years ago Jason Posey know
also made his name by flexing his biceps
here on YouTube he gave advice on health
and fitness and he had his shirt off a
lot and this kind of thing oh as you can
see from these shots - he he has his
girlfriend's chest on camera also trying
to get views when I checked his channel
before his ex vegan announcement he had
several videos that were way down at 40
views 4-0 and a couple years ago his
channel was huge his influence is huge
he had he had a lot of viewers and a lot
of people who knew his name and a lot of
people respect him and he worked hard to
get that that level of notoriety within
the vegan scene but what do you know his
channel has I don't know it's part of
the sinking ship of veganism he himself
lost interest in veganism and veganism
lost interest in him and he was getting
down to fewer than 100 views per video
routinely and what does he decide to do
to get some new vitality and interest in
his channel being what do you know he
goes from being a fake vegan to being a
fake ex vegan now yeah sure
5000 views is not a huge number but one
you were struggling to get just 100
views I guess that motivated him to make
this ridiculous announcement sorcerer
murabba old old-school voice in the
vegan game also a struggling actress if
you look her up on IMDB you can see her
rap sheet you can see how many roles
she's managed to land in the last five
years
small roles in small films living in los
angeles posting sexy pictures of herself
on Instagram she's not the only one
she's got competition going to each of
those casting calls she's got
competition for every one of those roles
she's got competition on Instagram she's
got competition here within vegan
YouTube and what do you know she gets a
couple videos in a row there with really
low numbers one thousand three thousand
two thousand and then Bing she decides
to do this fake ex vegan thing she has a
video called I'm also no longer vegan
question mark and it's it's twelve
thousand views guys you know there were
times when this movement gets to such a
low ebb the whole scene gets so
depressing that I start to ask whether
or not veganism has a future but I don't
think anyone is even gonna ask whether
or not Fame whoring through X veganism
has a future if veganism has no future
anti veganism has even less of a future
if nobody's getting famous or getting
money or getting influenced or social
media status through veganism you must
realize what a dead ended
counterproductive thing it is to try to
chase the same fame or notoriety or
what-have-you
through X veganism obviously that can
only be a very short-term strategy and
if you look at a channel like Kasumi
Chris there are so many examples people
who rejected veganism and briefly got a
bunch of views or they made videos
talking about their first time eating
meat after so many years not eating
meeting this kind of thing what they
find is not only that they have no
enduring relationship with that audience
who briefly stopped by to Pat them on
the back maybe to pat themselves on the
back and gloat that veganism is
supposedly an opossum possible or
difficult to sustain ideal whatever
these people find new excuses for their
old bad habits and then quickly move on
um aside from that ex veganism and anti
veganism is never going to give them the
sense of meaning and direction they had
in their lives when when veganism was
the content that they came on you
to preach what is the moral of the story
get on the microphone when you have
something to say get on camera when you
have something to say say things that
are meaningful make videos that you
would want to watch yourself if you came
back after you'd forgotten what they
were about five years later and we're
rewatching the videos on your own
channel these are really basic
guidelines oh hey and reach out to
people interact with people collaborate
with people with the same level of
civility sympathy humanity empathy that
you would extend to someone if you met
them in a coffee shop
those are my guidelines for getting on
YouTube and staying on YouTube and you
know what you'll find that the rewards
are much greater than scraping your way
through a ph.d program scraping your way
into a publishers office publishing a
book so on and so forth those are paths
I've seen others take around me my
ex-wife had a PhD from Cambridge
University she could put a lecture on
YouTube right now ain't none y'all gonna
want to hear it she could she has
published books ain't none y'all gonna
read them so the beauty of YouTube is
you get to find your audience your
audience gets to find you but the
commitment you have to make is
fundamentally to realtalk I mean really
people like to disrespect my truth but
the fact is that you know my name is I
don't know